Let me give you an example of how to analyze an A/B test result.
Let's use the data from an A/B test meant to increase the number of user purchases.
In this experiment, there were 1,500 users in the control group,
and 1,600 in the test group.
The control group made 200 purchases,
and the experiment group made 250.
From these numbers, we can see the test group made
slightly more purchases per user than the control group.
However, this difference could be due to random chance.
We need to use a t-test to see if the differences in
conversion rate are large enough that it was likely the result of the experiment.
To perform a t-test,
we will need a null hypothesis and an alternative hypothesis.
In this example, our null hypothesis would be that there is
no difference in the purchase rate between users and the control and test groups.
The alternative hypothesis, what we as product managers hope is true,
is that there is a difference in the purchase rate between the test and control groups.
We also need to set the competence threshold.
I chose 95 percent,
and I will set it as a two-tailed tests,
since a test group can convert higher or lower than the control group.
Now that we have the data we need,
we can calculate the p-value.
There are many free online calculators that can help you
confirm if your test results are statistically significant.
In this statistical significance calculator,
you can enter the number of visitors or users in your control A group,
and experiment B group.
In this case, 1,500 control visitors, and 1,600 tests.
Then, we add the number of users who convert it,
which is this case the number of users who made purchases,
200 for the control group,
and 250 for the test.
Some statistical significance calculators will
ask you if a test is one-sided or two-sided,
which means one-tailed or two-tailed.
Product tests can almost universally make the conversion target go up or down.
You should always choose two-tailed if using a calculator that asked this question.
Finally, you might be asked your confidence level.
The higher the number, the stronger your evidence needs to be.
Generally, 95 percent confidence is considered a good choice.
When you have a 95 percent confidence level,
you are looking for a p-score or p-value lower than 0.025.
If you're p-score is less than 0.025,
the null hypothesis can be rejected,
and the alternative is accepted in its place.
If your p-score is greater than 0.025,
you can say with confidence that the differences you saw,
were due to more than random change.
The difference is most likely would not be replicated if the tests were expanded.
Almost all calculators will tell you if your results are
statistically significant without you needing to look at the p-value.
In this case, the result is not statistically significant.
We can confirm this by looking at the p-value ourselves,
0.0345, and noting that it is greater than 0.025.
This means we cannot reject our null hypothesis that
the test and control groups have the same rate of purchase.
The test did not result in a statistically significant different rate of purchase,
between the two groups.
In this example, we used a calculator to see if the results of
an A/B test were statistically significant by comparing our control A,
to our experiment results B.
For a multivariate test,
we will compare our control A,
to experiments B, and then A to C,
and A to D, and so on,
to see if any test states had a significant effect on the conversion for that experiment.